C Practical Assignments For MCA 1 st Year
1.Write a program to calculate simple and compound interest.
2.write a program to swap values of two variables with and without using third variable.
3.write a program to display the size of 	data type using "sizeof" operator.
4.write a program to illustrate the use of unary prefix and postfix increment and decrement operators.
5.Write a program to input two numbers and display the maximum number.
6.Write a program to find the largest of three numbers using ternary operators.
7.Write a program to find the roots of quadratic equation.
8.write a program to input name, marks of 5 subjects ofa student and display the name of the student, the total marks scored, percentage scored and the class of result.
9.Write a program to count number of digits in a given integer.
10.Write a program to reverse a given integer.
11.Write a program to print number in reverse order with a difference of 2.
12.Write a program to print the sum of digits of a number using for loop.
13.Write a program to check whether a number is Palindrome or not.
14.Write a program to generate Fibonacci series.
15.If a four-digit number is input through the keyboard, write a program to obtain the sum of the first and last digit of this number.
16.Write a program to find GCD (greatest common divisor or HCF) and LCM (least common multiple) of
17.Program: Write a program to display the following pattern.
18.Write a Program to find the largest and smallest element in Array.
19.Write a Program to reverse the array elements in C Programming.
20.Write a Program for deletion of an element from the specified location from Array.
21.Write a Program to access an element in 2-D Array.
22.Write a program for addition of two matrices of any order in C.
23.Write a Program to multiply two 3 X 3 Matrices.
24.Write a program to read a string and check for palindrome without using string related function (a string is palindrome if its half is mirror by itself eg: abcdcba).
25.Write a program to accept a string and count the number of vowels present in this String
26.Write a program to add, subtract, multiply and divide two integers using userdefined type function with return type.
27.Write a program to calculate sum of first 20 natural numbers using recursive function.
28.Write a program to generate Fibonacci series using recursive function.
29.Write a program to swap two integers using call by value and call by reference methods of passing arguments to a function.
30.Write a program to find sum of digits of the number using Recursive Function.
31.Write a program to read an integer number and print the reverse of that nuber using recursion.
32.Write a C program to find maximum and minimum between two numbers using functions.
33.Write a C program to check whether a number is even or odd using functions.
34.Write a C program to check whether a number is prime, Armstrong or perfect number using functions.
35.Write a C program to find power of any number using recursion
36.Write a program to find the sum of all the elements of an array using pointers.
37.Write a program to swap value of two variables using pointer.
38.Write a program to add two numbers using pointers.
39.Write a program to input and print array elements using pointer.
40.Write a program to copy one array to another using pointer.
41.Write a program to swap two arrays using pointers.
42.Write a program to reverse an array using pointers.
43.Write a program to search an element in array using pointers.
44.Write a program to add two 2 X 2 matrix using pointers.
45.Write a program to multiply two 2 X 2 matrix using pointers.
46.Write a program to find length of string using pointers.
47.Write a program to copy one string to another using pointer.
48.Write a program to concatenate two strings using pointers. 
49. Write a program to compare two strings using pointers.
50.C Program to list all files and sub-directories in a directory
51.C Program to count number of lines in a file
52.C Program to print contents of file
53.C Program to copy contents of one file to another file
54.C Program to merge contents of two files into a third file
55.C program to delete a file
